:orphan:

Page Not Found
==============

Unfortunately, the page you opened does not exist (yet).
This should not usually happen but might be ok in a few cases.


Links in MPF Config Errors or Log Warnings
------------------------------------------

Did you reached this page by clicking a link in a config error or
log warning?

.. code-block:: doscon

   mpf.exceptions.config_file_error.ConfigFileError: Config File Error in show:
   Show test_show2: Show test_show2 does not appear to be a valid show config.
   It should be a list of steps. Did you forget the hyphen at the start of your
   step? Context: test_show2 Error Code: CFE-show-1
   (https://docs.missionpinball.org/en/dev/logs/CFE-show-1.html)

MPF automatically generates links to the docs for config errors.
We plan to document common pitfalls and hints on how to solve this
particular error on that page.
As those links are autogenerated not all of those pages exist yet.
However, we will create them on demand.

Please tell us about your error in the
`MPF Users Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users>`_
and we might create the page afterwards.
Or even better:
`You help us to create it afterwards <http://docs.missionpinball.org/en/dev/about/contributing_to_mpf_docs.html>`_.

You could also check if this error is already documented for a newer version
or MPF.
To do that you can select the version on the bottom left of the documentation
interface where your current version is shown.

External Links
--------------

If you found an broken external link please let us know in the
`MPF Users Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users>`_
and we will see what we can do about it.
Alternatively, tell the external site about it and ask them to fix the link

Internal Links
--------------

If you found an broken intenal link (from inside the docs) please let us know
in the
`MPF Users Google Group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users>`_
and we will fix it.
