
MPF supports dot matrix displays (DMD) devices. It can support
physical devices plugged into the 14-pin DMD ribbon cable on a modern
pinball controller, as well as on-screen "virtual" DMDs: ` `_` `_ For
physical DMDs (left photo above), MPF can support up to 16 shades of
pixel brightness for traditional mono-color DMDs. (This can be both
new LED-style and older gas discharge displays, and even old displays
that were only only 2 or 4 shades can be driven at 16 shades by modern
pinball hardware.)MPF can support refresh rates at the limit of the
hardware, typically about 60 Hz. MPF can also support newer full color
RGB LED "matrix" displays that are arrays of RGB LEDs. (These are
similar to the Color DMD product, except they're actual arrays of RGB
LEDs and not an LCD screen.) MPF can also drive on screen virtual DMDs
(right photo above). You can configure the color of the dots, the
shape, the spacing between pixels, etc. You can also specify the size
of how big the DMD is rendered on screen, including rendering it in
"life size" at high resolution (meaning you could put an LCD monitor
in your backbox instead of a hardware DMD to save money. ($70 for a
14" LCD versus $400 for a DMD) MPF can also support driving a physical
DMD and on screen virtualDMD at the same time. (With the DMD content
from the physical DMD automatically showing up in the virtual DMD.)



What about Color DMDs?
----------------------

MPF can support both "real" and "LCD" color DMDs. LCD color DMDs
aren't physical DMDs per say, rather, they're LCD monitors in the back
box which run software to make the displays look like they're low-
resolution color DMDs. (So we use modern high-res displays to look
like they're simple multi-color hardware DMDs.) "Real" color DMDs are
matrix arrays of RGB LEDs (often referred to as "Smart Matrix"
displays) which you drive via separate hardware such as a Teensy with
SmartMatrix shield. In either case, you create your content for a low-
res DMD which you then display on an LCD window or on the physical
matrix hardware: ` `_ All DMD options let you adjust the pixel style
and spacing, color palettes, and other characteristics of the display
to get it dialed in exactly how you like it.



Configuring your DMD
--------------------

You configure your DMD in the ` `dmd:` section`_ of your machine
configuration file. If you would also like to have a virtual DMD in
your on screen window, youconfigure that as a `virtual_dmd display
element`_.

.. _ section: https://missionpinball.com/docs/configuration-file-reference/dmd/
.. _virtual_dmd display element: https://missionpinball.com/docs/displays/display-elements/virtual-dmd/


