
The `dmd:` section of your machine configuration file is how you
configure your DMD (dot matrix display). Note that you need to do this
for both physical DMDs *and* if you just want to have a virtual
window-based DMD that looks like an old school physical DMD. This
sectioncan be used in your machine-wide config files. This section
*cannot* be used in mode-specific config files. Here's an example of a
traditional single-color DMD:


::

    
    dmd:
        physical: yes
        width: 128
        height: 32
        shades: 16
        fps: auto


And here's an example of a full-color DMD:


::

    
    dmd:
        physical: yes
        width: 128
        height: 32
        fps: auto
        type: color


Specific settings include:



physical:
~~~~~~~~~

This is a True / False (or Yes / No) entry which is used to specify
whether you have a physical DMD attached. A "physical DMD" in this
case is a hardware DMD connected to a P-ROC or FAST Pinball Controller
via the 14-pin ribbon cable, or a "SmartMatrix" RGB LED-based DMD. If
you configure this for *no*, then your physical DMD won't work, but
you can still configure a virtual dot-like DMD display element for
your on screen LCD window (which can be single- or full-color). The
default is "No."



width:
~~~~~~

The width of your DMD in pixels. If you have a traditional single-
color physical pinball hardware DMD connected via the 14-pin DMD
cable, this will be `128`. If you don't have a physical DMD (and
you're just configuring the DMD here so you can have an on screen
virtual DMD), then you can set this to whatever you want. (You can
even go higher than 128 if you want high res while keeping the look of
dots.) The default is 128.



height:
~~~~~~~

The height of your DMD in pixels. Like `width:`above, if you have a
physical pinball DMD attached then this will be `32`. If you're
setting up your DMD for use as a virtual on screen DMD, then this can
be whatever you want. The default is 32.



shades:
~~~~~~~

This is the total number of shades (intensity levels) your mono-color
DMD can support. Most of your favorite 90s Williams/Bally games used 4
shades (loosely called "bright orange," "orange", "dark orange", and
"off"), though today's pinball controllerscan drive 16 shades (even on
old pinball machines with old high-voltage gas DMDs). If you use a
value other than 16 here then you'll have to make sure that any images
and animations you import are also set to only use your smaller number
of shades. You can also go higher than 16 if you don't have a physical
DMD (since the on screen virtual DMD can use as many shades as you
want). If you have a color DMD, this setting is ignored. The default
value is 16.



fps:
~~~~

How many frames per second you want you DMD to operate at. The default
value is `auto`which means it will operate at the same speed as your
`Machine HZ`_. Note that you can't set this higher than your machine
Hz. (Well, you can, but it would just update at the machine Hz rate.)
Also some display hardware has speed limitations, so if you're running
your machine Hz at a really high rate (say, higher than 60) then you
should hard code your DMD fps to something more sane here. The default
is "auto."



type:
~~~~~

This is let's you specify whether you have a mono-color or full-color
DMD. The only valid option here is `type: color` (for full-color
DMDs). Any other value, or a not including this setting in your DMD
config, means that the DMD will be setup as a mono-color DMD. This
setting affects this DMD regardless of whether it's phsyical or
virtual. ("Virtual" meaning it's show in a window on your LCD via the
Virtual DMD display element.)

.. _Machine HZ: https://missionpinball.com/docs/mpf-core-architecture/machine-hz-loop-rates/


