
The *gis:* section of the config file is for `GI (general
illumination)`_ settings for hardware that uses them. (This is
typically with only used when you're writing new code for an existing
pinball machine. Custom games tend to use all individually-addressable
lights.) This section *can* be used in your machine-wide config files.
This section *cannot* be used in mode-specific config files. Here's an
example from *Judge Dredd*:


::

    
    gis:
        gi01:  # lower backglass
            number: G01
        gi02:  # mid backglass and rear playfield
            number: G02
        gi03:  # upper left backglass and slings, variable
            number: G03
        gi04:  # upper right backglass and deadworld globe, variable
            number: G04
        gi05:  # coin slot lights & side cabinet fire buttons
            number: G05
    




number:
~~~~~~~

The hardware number of the GI string. You can enter the number from
the operators manual, starting with the letter "G".



Device Control Events
---------------------

Device control events are events you can use to control devices. They
are configured in your machine-wide or mode config with settings that
end in *_events*. For example, if a device has a setting for
*enable_events:* and you add an event to that setting, then when that
event is posted, the device will enable. You can add single events or
lists of events to these settings, and you can also configure time-
delays for how much time passes between the event being posted and the
action to take place. Details are available in the `device control
event documentation`_. GIs make use of the following device control
events:



enable_events:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Enables this GI string. Default is *machine_reset_phase_3*.



disable_events:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Disables this GI string. Default is *None*.



Settings that apply to all device types
---------------------------------------

There are some settings that apply to all types of devices that also
apply here.



tags:
~~~~~

A list of one or more tags that apply to this device. Tags allow you
to access groups of devices by tag name.



label:
~~~~~~

The plain-English name for this device that will show up in operator
menus and trouble reports.



debug:
~~~~~~

Set this to *true* to add lots of logging information about this shot
to the debug log. This is helpful when you’re trying to troubleshoot
problems with this shot. Default is *False*.

.. _GI (general illumination): https://missionpinball.com/docs/mpf-core-architecture/devices/low-level-devices/gi-string/
.. _device control event documentation: https://missionpinball.com/docs/configuration-file-reference/important-config-file-concepts/configuring-device-control-events/


