
The Mission Pinball Framework supports RGB LEDs, like those found in
Jersey Jack's Wizard of Oz or Stern Star Trek Premium or LE. RGB LEDs
are *not* controlled via a traditional lamp matrix, rather, they're
driven by LED driver boards. MPF supports several types of LED driver
boards, including the PD-LED (for use with a P-ROC or P3-ROC),
serially-controlled LEDs driven by the FAST Pinball controller (which
has four built-in channels which support up to 64 RGB LEDs each or a
`FadeCandy`_ from Adafruit. MPF can set an RGB LED to any color, and
it can include RGB LEDs in shows, scripts, playlists, and layers, and
it can smoothly fade from one color to another and "blend" LEDs with
colors set in lower-level layers. MPF also supportsthe concept of
"brightness_compensation" which lets you configure the maximum
brightness for an RGB LED. Brightness compensation is a floating point
value between 0 and 1, and its used as a multiplier forall commands
that are sent to an LED. For example, if you turn on an RGB LED to be
bright white, its color would be `ffffff` (or, in integers, 255, 255,
255). If you set the brightness compensation to `0.85`, then MPF would
actually send that LED a value of [217, 217, 217]. (255 * 0.85). You
can set brightness compensation on entire RGB LEDs or on individual
elements, allowing you (or your customers) to "fine tune" LEDs to
their liking (e.g. white point adjustment), to "turn down" an entire
machine so it doesn't blow out their eyes in a dark bar, or to
compensate for inconsistent elements in a single LED package. Note
that MPF can support new-style direct controlled LEDs (which are
typically RGB) as well as incandescent replacement LEDs added into a
lamp matrix. (Though the latter are actually seen as "matrix lights"
as far as MPF is concerned, and you can't control the color or fade
them as smoothly as direct-controlled LEDs.) ` `_

.. _FadeCandy: http://www.adafruit.com/products/1689


