
You can configure the settings for MPF's OSC interface in the `osc:`
section of your machine config file. This sectioncan be used in your
machine-wide config files. This section *cannot* be used in mode-
specific config files. These settings are in the default
`mpfconfig.yaml` file, so they will be applied by default if you
enable the OSC interface. You can modify or override them in your own
machine configuration files.


::

    
    osc:
        machine_ip: auto
        machine_port: 8000
        approved_client_ips: any
        client_port: 9000
        debug_messages: false
        client_updates:
            switches
            lights
            data




machine_ip:
~~~~~~~~~~~

The IP address of your pinball machine. A value of `auto`means that it
will automatically use whatever the machine's IP address is.
`auto`works fine in most cases, but if you have more than one network
interface in your machine you might have to specify which one you want
to use.



machine_port:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UDPport of your pinball machine, i.e. the OSC interface will
listen on. (In your OSC clients, this is usually called the "outgoing"
port since it's the port they're sending their OSC messages to.)



approved_client_ips:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A list of approved IP addresses for OSC clients. This feature is not
yet implemented, so just leave it to `any`for now.



client_port:
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The UDPport the OSC interface will send clientmessages to. This is
usually called something like the "incoming" port on your OSC client.



debug_messages:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Set this to `true`to enable debug logging all (incoming and outgoing)
OSC messages. This is great when you're building your OSC clients so
you can see exactly what the machine is receiving and what it's
sending to the client. If you use this with light or switch updates
then this will be a *lot*of lines in your log file, so it's disabled
by default.



client_updates:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Specifies which types of activities you'd like to update on your OSC
client. As you can imagine, it's possible that updating every light
and every switch on your client is a lot of data, so if you don't use
them then you can safely remove them from this list.



