
The *tilt:* section of your config lets you specify the settings that
the tilt mode will use to process tilts. This sectioncan be used in
your machine-wide config files. This sectioncanbe used in mode-
specific config files. Here's an example:


::

    
    tilt:
      tilt_warning_switch_tag: tilt_warning
      tilt_switch_tag: tilt
      slam_tilt_switch_tag: slam_tilt
      warnings_to_tilt: 3
      reset_warnings_events: ball_ended
      multiple_hit_window: 300ms
      settle_time: 5s
      tilt_warnings_player_var: tilt_warnings


Let's look at each of these settings in more detail:



tilt_warning_switch_tag:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tag of the switch (or switches) that will cause a tilt warning to
occur. When a switch tagged with this tag is activated for the
*warnings_to_tilt* value, a tilt will occur. The count that keeps
track of these warnings is specified in the
*tilt_warnings_player_var*.



tilt_switch_tag:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tag of the switch (or switches) that will cause a tilt to occur.
Switches with this tag do not use the tilt warnings, rather they cause
a tilt to occur immediately. So don't use this for the plumb bob (use
the *tilt_warning_switch_tag* for that). Instead this might be for an
older machine that has the roller ball tilt that detects the front of
the machine being lifted off the ground.



slam_tilt_switch_tag:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tag of the switch (or switches) that, when activated, will cause a
slam tilt to occur.



warnings_to_tilt:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The number of warnings that will generate a tilt. The tilt is the
result of the last warning here, so a value of 3 here means the player
will get 2 warnings and then tilt on the 3rd.



reset_warnings_events:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A event (or list of events, in `MPF device control event format`_)
that will reset the number of warnings for the player. For example, if
you configure your machine for three warnings to tilt, if
*reset_warnings_events* is *ball_ended* then that means the player
will get two warnings per ball before the tilt. If you change it to
*game_ended*, that means they'll get two warnings per game.



multiple_hit_window:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The amount of time (in `MPF time string format`_) where multiple hits
to the tilt warning switch will be counted as a single warning.



settle_time:
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The amount of time (in `MPF time string format`_) that has to pass
before the next ball will be served after a tilt.



tilt_warnings_player_var:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The name of the player variable that will be used to track the number
of tilt warnings.

.. _MPF time string format: https://missionpinball.com/docs/configuration-file-reference/important-config-file-concepts/entering-time-duration-values/
.. _MPF device control event format: https://missionpinball.com/docs/configuration-file-reference/important-config-file-concepts/configuring-device-control-events/


