bonus (mode_settings:)
======================

*Config File section*

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| Valid in :doc:`machine config files </config/instructions/machine_config>` | **NO**  |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
| Valid in :doc:`mode config files </config/instructions/mode_config>`       | **YES** |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

This section explains how to use the ``mode_settings:`` section for your machine's
End of Ball Bonus mode. You should probably read the full :doc:`End of Ball Bonus </game_logic/bonus/index>`
documentation first, and then just use this for a reference for the settings later.

Note that the "mode_settings:" section is pretty much a generic placeholder that any
mode can use for its own custom settings. So the settings described here are specifically
the settings that are used by MPF's built-in bonus mode, and so these settings are only
valid in the bonus mode's mode configuration file.

Here's an example from *Brooks 'n Dunn*:

.. code-block:: mpf-config

   ##! mode: mode1
   mode_settings:
     display_delay_ms: 4000
     hurry_up_delay_ms: 500
     hurry_up_event: flipper_cancel
     bonus_entries:
       - event: quarter_bonus
         score: current_player.quarters * current_player.album_value
       - event: wizard_bonus
         score: 25000
         player_score_entry: num_albums

Settings
--------

display_delay_ms:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Time value, default ``2s``

The time between each "display event" generated by the bonus mode when its running. (In other words, this is essentially
how long each bonus slide is show.) This can be overridden on a slide-by-slide basis.

hurry_up_delay_ms:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Time value, default ``500ms``

The time between each "display event" after the bonus "hurry up" mode has been triggered. So if the ``display_delay_ms:``
is 2 seconds, and then the player hits both flippers at the same time to "hurry up" the bonus display, that hurry up
time will be used here.

Note that if you don't want to show the slides faster, rather you just want to jump directly to the last slide, then
you can enter a value of ``0`` here.

hurry_up_event:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Name of an event. Default is ``flipper_cancel``.

The event that will cause the bonus mode to change its delay between slides from the ``display_delay_ms:`` time to the
``hurry_up_delay_ms:`` time. When this event is posted, the next slide is shown immediately, and the timing is set to
the new hurry up value.

end_bonus_event:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Name of an event. Default is ``None``.

If you enter an event name here, the bonus mode will pause before posting its *bonus_done* event and wait for this
event to be posted. If this event is ``None``, then the bonus mode will automatically end. You can enter an event name
here if you have something custom you want to do in the bonus mode.

keep_multiplier:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Boolean True/False or Yes/No. Default is ``False``.

Controls whether the bonus_multiplier player variable should be reset (to 1) when the bonus mode is over. Default is
``False`` which will not keep the bonus. (e.g. default is to reset it)

.. include:: template_setting.rst

bonus_entries:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A list of sub-entries, with one entry for each "thing" you want to track in the bonus.

This is the real meat of the bonus section. Many modern pinball machines have lots of different things that go into
the bonus calculation. So rather than just saying, "Your bonus is 5400 points", it's more like "5 aliens x 25k points
each, plus 15 modes x 1m each, plus 4 combos x 100k each, all times the bonus multiplier."

Since this section is entered like a list, you need a dash and a space at the beginning of each new entry so MPF
knows where one entry ends and one begins.

Here's how an example might look based on the aliens, modes, and combos example just mentioned:

     bonus_entries:
         - event: alien_bonus
           score: 25000
           player_score_entry: aliens
         - event: mode_bonus
           score: 1000000
           player_score_entry: num_modes
         - event: combo_bonus
           score: 100000
           player_score_entry: combos

Let's look at each option you can use in each bonus entry:

event: (required)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The name of the event that is posted by the bonus mode. You should use a ``slide_player:`` in your bonus mode with
slide entries based on these names, so when the bonus mode posts that event, you can show a slide with the relevant
information for that bonus entry.

score: (required)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

How many points this bonus entry is worth. Note that this will be multiplied by the ``player_score_entry:`` (if it's
present). Also note that you can use :doc:`dynamic values </config/instructions/dynamic_values>` here if you want to
do advanced math.

player_score_entry:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An optional name of a player variable that will be multiplied by the ``score:`` entry. This is useful for the "easy"
entries where it's just "some player variable multiplied by some score". (For example, "number of aliens times 25,000".)
In the example above, the first entry called "alien_bonus" will multiply the "aliens" player variable times 25000.

Note that the bonus mode doesn't care what player variable you use, and it would be up to you to make sure that the
player variable you choose is updated throughout your game (either through a ``variable_player:`` section or a logic
block or something like that).

Also if you choose not to include this entry, that's fine. In that case the ``score:`` entry will be used by itself.
Notice in the example at the top of this page from *Brooks 'n Dunn* that it's not used when we need the advanced math
of multiplying two player variables together.

reset_player_score_entry:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Boolean (True/False or Yes/No). Default is ``False``.

If this is true/yes, then the bonus mode will reset the ``player_score_entry:`` back to 0 once the bonus mode is over.
This is just a convenience thing for simpler bonus calculations that need to be reset per ball. You don't have to use
it can could also reset the player variable some other way.

skip_if_zero:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Boolean (True/False or Yes/No). Default is ``True``.

If this is True/Yes, then if the score calculation for this bonus entry turns out to be 0, then the event for this
bonus entry is not posted. This is nice if you don't want a bonus screen to show up for something the player has not
done, like "0 ramps = 0 points" or whatever. (Or maybe you want to make this "true" to show the player how bad they
are?) :)
