---
title: Notes for upgrading to MPF 0.57
---

# MPF 0.57 changes (current release)

!!! warning "MPF 0.80 is Coming Soon"

    This installation guide is for MPF 0.57 and the legacy MC, which is being replaced in the upcoming MPF 0.80 with the Godot MC. If you are just getting started with MPF, we recommend you [install MPF 0.80](index.md) instead.

*Last updated October 14, 2023*

The latest official release of MPF is `v0.57.3`, which has substantial changes from 0.56. If you are upgrading a 0.56 project, this page will provide guidance on how to do that.

Update 2026: MPF `0.80.0` is pending release, replacing 0.57 as the modern way to develop with MPF. The instructions on this page are presented for reference, see [Installing MPF 0.80 and the GMC](../gmc/installation.md) and [Migrating to MPF 0.80 and Godot GMC](0.80.md) for more up-to-date information.

## Big changes in 0.57

* Adds support for Python 3.10 and 3.11 in 0.57.1 (3.8 and 3.9 are still supported. 3.7 might work but is no longer being tested). Python 3.12 is supported by 0.57.4.
* Changes the YAML interface to remove "hacks" we added years ago. Now MPF supports the pure YAML spec.
  * This requires [some changes](../config/instructions/config_v6.md) (not too bad) to your config files.
  * Config files are now `config_version=6`
  * Show files are now `show_version=6`
* Completely overhauled FAST Pinball platform interface, with support for the FAST Neuron Controller and Expansion Boards

### Other smaller changes in 0.57

* Improved the algorithm for how RGB colors are mapped to RGBW LEDs.
* Removed the config file migrator (hasn't been used in years)

## How to install MPF 0.57

The installation packages have been published, so you can install via `pip` just like how you install MPF.

``` shell
pip3 install mpf
```

If you want to install a new version of Python (like 3.11), you can, and run it side-by-side your existing version. Then you can access Python 3.11 and pip for Python 3.11 via `pip3.11 install mpf`

### MPF Monitor 0.57

MPF Monitor was upgraded with 0.57. The current Monitor version is 0.57.2. You can install it via `pip` as well.

```shell
pip3 install mpf-monitor --pre
```

## MPF-MC 0.57

You can install the latest version of MPF-MC from the dev branch as well. (It's also 0.57.0.devXX.)

``` shell
pip3 install mpf-mc --pre
```

We had some issues with audio in earlier builds of MPF-MC 0.57, but we think those are resolved? Open an Issue on
GitHub if you have any issues with sound not working.

## Upgrading to MPF 0.57

Here's what it will take to upgrade to MPF 0.57:

* If you're on Python 3.7, you'll need to update.
* If you're on Python 3.8 or 3.9, you do not have to change your Python version.
* If you want, you can use Python 3.10 or 3.11.
* Update your config files to config_version 6

## YAML changes in MPF 0.57 / config version 6

Since MPF 0.57 removes the older YAML hacks we did years ago, you will need to update your config files. Because this is a config file change, MPF 0.57 moves from `config_version=5` to `config_version=6`.

The full guide to how to update your config files is [here](../config/instructions/config_v6.md)
