---
title: Migrating to MPF 0.80 and Godot GMC
---

# Migrating to MPF 0.80 and Godot GMC (GMC pre-release)

*Last updated Jan 11, 2026*

The upcoming release of MPF is 0.80, which includes support for the Godot Media Controller (GMC) and drops support for the 0.57 Kivy-based Media Controller (MC). In preparation for full release, we recommend upgrading existing 0.80 projects to the latest dev version, `0.80.0.dev11`.

While there are not many functional changes in MPF between 0.57 and 0.80, there are some config file migrations necessary and this document will help you through that.

*See also: [Installing MPF 0.80 and the GMC](../gmc/installation.md)*

--8<-- "latest_versions.md"

## List of Required Changes

### MPF and GMC version compatibility

MPF (as of `0.80.0.dev9`) contains code to check whether the installed GMC version is compatible. 0.80.0.dev9 is the first version to check this, and it requires GMC version 0.1.5 or greater.

### Slides and Widgets

The GMC manages all slides and widgets, so the `slides:` and `widgets:` config sections are deprecated.

### Sound Player

The GMC manages all sound assets, so the `sound_system:` and `sounds:` config sections are deprecated. You can still reference sounds by filename directly, but if you want to specify specific settings for a sound or sound pool, use the `MPFSoundAsset` resource type in GMC.

Audio channel groups have been renamed from "tracks" to "buses", so in your `sound_player:` config sections change `track: music` to `bus: music`.

### Sound Pools

The GMC includes support for sound pools using the `AudioStreamRandomizer` resource type. You can combine this sound pool with MPF-specific sound properties by creating an `MPFSoundAsset` resource and using an `AudioStreamRandomizer` as the stream.

!!! warning "Using MPF Sound Pools"

    If you have a large project with many `sound_pools:` defined in MPF configs, it is *possible* to continue using them until you migrate them to GMC. This hack is not officially supported, and may have unintended side-effects, so use with caution.

    To enable sound pools in config files, you will need to install the legacy MPF-MC in your virtual environment with `pip install mpf-mc`. This will cause the MC to inject the sound pool configurations into MPF 0.80

    **Note:** While MPF will manage the sound pools, it will not be able to map sound pool sound names to files configured in a `sounds:` config section (which is no longer supported). Your sound pools ***must** use the name of the sound file as the sound name or GMC will not be able to find the correct file.


## Changes to default modes

Many of the modes provided for optional use with MPF have been changed, and may require you to make changes to maintain compatibility.

### Bonus Mode

The bonus config spec has changed to use the keyword `entry` instead of `event` when defining bonus entries, because Bonus events have changed to use a consolidated *bonus_entry* event instead of unique events for each bonus item (including subtotal, multiplier, and total).

In your bonus.yaml config section, change each entry from `event: bonus_item_name` to `entry: bonus_item_name`.

With this change, given a bonus entry named "completed_ramps" that was hit 3 times for a score of 3000:

**MPF 0.57 Event:**
``` console
completed_ramps{hits=3, score=3000}
```

**MPF 0.80 Event:**
``` console
bonus_entry{entry="completed_ramps", hits=3, score=3000}
```

#### Bonus default slide

A default Godot slide for the bonus mode has been provided. You may duplicate this slide to your own slides folder to use as a base for
your own layout and customization.


### Carousel Modes (updated in `0.80.0.dev10`)

Carousel events have changed to use a consolidated *carousel_item_highlighted* and *carousel_item_selected* event instead of unique events for each item.

Given a carousel mode "missionselect" and an item "garrus":

**MPF 0.57 Event:**
``` console
missionselect_garrus_highlighted{direction="forwards"}
```

**MPF 0.80 Event:**
``` console
carousel_item_highlighted{carousel="missionselect", item="garrus", direction="forwards"}
```

The new *carousel_item_highlighted* event is incorporated into GMC, but if you have other custom event handlers for carousel item selection those will need to be updated.


### High Score Entry/Award Mode

The built-in high score mode has had some significant changes, including breaking changes to which events are automatically posted by the mode.

#### Default controls for high score name entry slide

The controls for scrolling through the text entry options and for submitting the selected item are now included by default with MPF.
If you have set the tags `start`, `left_flipper`, and `right_flipper` on switch devices, those switches will automatically take control
of the high score interface. Left and right will change the selected item, and Start will select the item or submit the name when complete.

If you do not use these tags, or wish to use your own controls, see the `event_player` entry in the MPF codebase `high_score.yaml` config for information about the `text_input{action:left|right|select}` events that GMC uses to control the Godot slide.

#### High score event changes (updated in `0.80.0.dev10`)

Like carousel, high score events have also changed to use static naming, with all dynamic information being consolidated in the event parameters.

The events `high_score_award_display`, `(award_name)_award_display`, and `(category_name)_award_display`
have been reduced to just `high_score_award_display`. Award name is available as the parameter `award`,
category name is the parameter `category_name`, and the parameters `player_num`, `player_name`, and `value` are also available.

#### High score default slides

Default Godot slides for the name prompt and award display have been provided -- if you duplicate them to your own slide folder
with the original names, your duplicates will be used in place of the defaults.


### Tilt mode slides

The 0.57 tilt mode contained slides for `tilt_warning_1`, `tilt_warning_2`, and `tilt`.
0.80 only contains a single slide, named `tilt` for all three cases.

If you wish to customize your tilt slides, see the `slide_player` entry in the MPF codebase `tilt.yaml` config for examples.
