What's new in MPF 0.31
======================

Version 0.31...

Not every change is listed here, but these are the big ones:


Audio Library Improvements
--------------------------
The custom audio library continues to be developed and includes some new features in 0.31.

sounds:
~~~~~~~

New sound parameters (see the :doc:`sounds: </config/sounds>` documentation for full details):

+ ``simultaneous_limit`` - Optionally limit the number of instances of a sound that may be played
  at once
+ ``stealing_method`` - Determines the behavior when the maximum number of simultaneous instances
  of a sound has been reached
+ ``fade_in`` - The time duration over which to fade in a sound when it is played
+ ``fade_out`` - The time duration over which to fade out a sound when it is stopped
+ ``start_at`` - The position (in seconds) in the sound file at which to start playback of a sound
+ ``mode_end_action`` - Determines what action to take when the mode that initiates playback of
  the sound ends
+ ``markers`` - A list of sound file positions (in seconds) and associated events that are posted
  when each position is reached during playback

Ducking now supports multiple track targets.  ``ducking.target`` supports a list of track names
rather than a single value. Ducking was also redesigned to be more efficient.

sound_pools:
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sound pools have also been extended to include the new ``simultaneous_limit`` and
``stealing_method`` parameters.  See the :doc:`sound_pools: </config/sound_pools>` documentation
for full details.

sound_player:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most sound parameters can now be overridden in the sound player giving the designer flexibility to
create sounds with sets of different parameters values that can be triggered by events.  More more
information see the :doc:`sound_player: </config_players/sound_player>` documentation.

